I don't have a situation.
Better response of answer, Matt.
I can buy a partial response.
I'm not in my area.
I'm really trying to do it.
The way I should be done.
Then the further question was whether or not you directed Mr. Adam
and asked Senator McCarthy whether or not he said
that the McCarthy was faithful as you.
Against, General.
I guess you, if you relieved the welcome of his command.
No sir.
Good-moments.
I wanted to inform that I'm a part of your public
when I was giving some consideration.
But if you go and mispronounce what I was trying to get it to,
did you add Mr. Adam?
So, the Senator McCarthy and get to you and ensure that Senator McCarthy
that Senator McCarthy would not make a public issue
of the remaining of General Watkins command.
I have him to inform Senator McCarty of the night
that I had this matter under consideration.
And now I must pull that is not a direct answer.
You can answer that Mr. Vick-Tay.
Yes or no, and then make such an explanation as you see it.
Well, they're not Senator McCarthy.
With make a public issue.
General Watkins is relieving General Watkins
command the reason of General Watkins having cooperated
with the committee.
Did you want to know whether or not Senator McCarthy
was making a public issue of that if you relieved General Watkins
from Fort Monmouth?
I wanted to.
I want Senator McCarthy to have the information.
I was telling Adam to find out how he fell about it.
Well, I must pull that is in the direct answer.
So, I just question these.
Did you want a share in this from Senator McCarthy?
That he would not make a public issue.
Obviously, if you relieved General Watkins of his command
and I have no recollection about it at all.
Maybe Mr. Secretary, possibly Mr. Vick-Tay.
Like sir.
Not that I can refresh your recollection.
If Mr. Adam called you at approximately 2 p.m.
on the afternoon of November 25th,
from a room adjoining the hearing room
at the United States 4th house in the presence of Senator McCarty
to tell you that he had bad news for you
in that Senator McCarthy was not agreed to silence.
If you relieved General Watkins of his command at Fort Monmouth.
I don't remember that exactly.
I can look it up and see.
I know that I call Mr. Coleman.
I call Mr. Stone.
I call Mr. Adam one step further myself.
And he called me back.
Did he?
I'm sorry.
He called me back and said that very call it.
He had a poor man on McCarthy who was depressed about it
because he felt the Senator Watkins was cooperating
for me with the committee.
And he therefore would like to have General Watkins continue on.
Now, if one of the things concerning which you demanded
a written explanation of General Watkins on November 25th,
praise by him of Senator McCarty.
No sir.
I can reiterate that, Mr. Secretary.
Did General Watkins that lived to you through General Watkins,
a memorandum,
before he to give you explanation of various matters
which he had said which you thought he should not have said?
I keep a word of memorandum.
At my request, I was lining the substance of some statements
he made at Fort Monmouth, the substance of which I was interested
in knowing about.
And I try to answer you for that memorandum.
You had indicated the general facts that you were thoroughly
displeased with General Watkins and his judgment
and his safety of may.
Had you not?
No, I did not say I was following the spree.
So simply alerted General Watkins back to the fact that I was giving
him out of some thought and I'd like him to do likewise.
Mr. Secretary, does not paragraph nine of the memorandum
that General Watkins was required to submit contained
an explanation by him as to a compliment which he had paid
to Senator McCarty?
I think there's something in there about I don't remember the paragraph.
Now my next question is this, sir.
Did you not refuse to see General Watkins when he was in your
waiting room on the afternoon of, I did not see General Watkins,
but I don't refuse to speak to the fellow back and possibly work him in.
But I have a pretty heavy schedule over there.
I can't see everybody that's a light and streaming.
Maybe I didn't make myself famous, please.
On the afternoon of November 25th, the general back
bring General Watkins to your outer house.
I think you did.
Did you know back into your out?
Did he ask you if you would see General Watkins?
I don't think he asked me.
I think he told me General Watkins out there and that I want to clear him.
Did you see General Watkins to get his explanation to what he said?
No, because I had this memorandum coming in and that was the information
I wanted about the speeches that he made on the post.
Was this the same afternoon that Mr. Hatton's telephone
you informed you that Senator McCarty was not agreed to remain silent
if a reprisal was taken against General Watkins?
I don't remember what that was in the morning about.
I think it was the same day.
It's all around the same time.
It's my right turn.
Same day, I think.
Now, I wanted to leave that for a minute to find my secretary
and turn to this.
Alligation numbers and alligations on the Adam and Steven's alligations
whatever it might be called, number 12,
of improper means used to get proper rental treatment for private shine.
You looked at meetings that took place in your office
on the afternoon of November 16th,
and which you say that Mr. Farr and I made threats to you.
That is listed as Alligation number 12 of the youth
have been properly to get proper rental treatment for private shine.
I wonder if you could tell the committee whether or not private shine
made was mentioned on that afternoon.
So, yeah.
I don't recall Mr. Conn at this moment that Sean was,
but I'd like to think about it.
I say Mr. Chairman, I have no more objections to the secretary
and I think about anything he might have said or know about me
and I do about it, if he's about anything, but about Mr. Farr.
I wonder this, sir.
Could you now tell us having listed this as a very serious allegation
against me whether or not you can recall my saying anything?
About private shine to you on that afternoon.
But I can remember some other things you said.
Were they with reference to private shine, sir?
They were with reference to my press conference and also to the hearings.
First of all, I had asked you now if these as listed as allegation number 12
of youth of improper means to get proper rental treatment for private
gee David shine.
And I was wondering if you want to tell the committee whether or not
I'd use any improper means or Mr. Cri did on that afternoon
to get preferential treatment for private shine.
Well, Mr. Conn at my, I only know how to answer these questions
by using a few words and it's not an attempt to prolong or do you say it
or anything else, but I can tell you, give me a mic.
My general feeling about that meeting if you want me to.
Well, I'll have a wee time and I wonder if we first deal with this.
Would you agree with me, sir, that Mr. John Adams,
if you're a present telephone me at my home on Sunday afternoon, November 15th.
And ask me to come to Washington and be in your office the next morning
and state a bit of like if not be there, if you and he would like in New York
to see me that Sunday night.
John Adams, perhaps, put about that I don't recall.
So I just wondered if you could tell us whether or not Mr. Adams called me carrying a message
for you asking me to be present in your office the next afternoon
to discuss a matter with you concerning which you are very much stressed
whether or not you sent Mr. Adams to tell me that you're required
that if I could not be there, the matter is the such urgency to you
that you and me would fly up in New York to see me that very thing Sunday night.
I have no knowledge about that.
I don't remember anything on your time as he's fine.
So Mr. Jenkins.
Secretary of the understandings you have under consideration
for leaving General Lawton fired on November 24th for reasons that you state is that correct?
Yes.
And does that other understand it?
You have the authority as Secretary of the Army to release the General of his command
using your discretion you think it's proper.
Yes sir?
And without the adviser consent of any other person?
Well that is in a way of a work of conduct about to do it
or certainly without the adviser consent of Senator McCartney.
That's what.
Now Mr. Davis.
Even if you were asked whether or not Mr. Adams went to New York City on November 24th
and was sent there by you and whether or not his mission was to help to Senator McCartney
and find out whether or not Senator McCartney was making such a easy rally
if you would please General Lawton of his command and the design district you are and so you state
you did not remember it.
Is that right Mr. Davis?
My recollection is that Mr. Adams wants New York to attend the public hearings
of the Fort Moments hearing service committee and that I telephoned him while he was there
and told him I was giving thought to this matter and asked him to take it up to Senator McCartney
and advise him about it.
All right you called him in New York on how to send some soaring details Senator McCartney
that you were giving thoughts to relieving General Lawton and the sign out had he to Senator McCartney tell about.
That's right.
Well I wanted to inform him.
Absolutely.
Now what if we ask him what?
Well why was that a matter of any concern to you Mr. Secretary?
Because what he felt about it and that you made the decisions without controlling the crimes in New York
and it started here that you were going to relieve General Lawton from his command
because he had cooperated with the McCartney committee.
Now you see the improvements of the years and the importance of it and the committee wants to know
do you now say that you told him Mr. Attas and told him to tell Senator McCartney
that you had under consideration relieving General Lawton and that you wanted Senator McCartney
and advise him about it to get his reaction.
It is that right.
That's the way that I was at this section.
The following on the basis of the cooperation with Senator McCartney and this committee
would not testify to Attas and this is another evidence of my desire not to take any action
that could be considered non-cooperative by Secretary by Senator McCartney.
And I think if I had taken the arbitrary action of relieving General Lawton
that Senator McCartney would have put it back as an act of non-cooperation by the Army
with this committee and I didn't want to do that.
In other words you said.
That's...
You have understood that General Lawton had been cooperating with the McCartney committee.
Oh yes sir.
But what are?
Yes.
In the investigation of each of the persons.
That's right.
And this Mr. Mr. Cwensioner.
And you knew that General Lawton himself had suspended a number on his own volition
since about after the first stage.
That's right.
And Mr. Secretary you say that you did not want to relieve General Lawton
without first learning of what sort of a reaction it was to bring from Senator McCartney
and with the fear shall we say that he might charge that you have done it as a reprisal?
Is that right?
Because of Lawton's cooperation with him McCartney, is that it?
Now I have that recorder read that.
That plays Mr. Jenkins.
Is he?
What is all the deep questions?
And Mr. Secretary you did not want to relieve General Lawton without first learning of what sort of reaction it was to bring some kind of a party.
But the fear shall we say that he might charge that you have done it as a reprisal?
Is that right?
Because of Lawton's cooperation with him McCartney.
I don't know anything about reprisal.
Mr. Jenkins, let me ask you this question.
You have to relieve General Lawton.
Are there command?
Sometimes the time had you not sent your law statement.
He was the only one under consideration at that time after.
You have never considered Senator McCartney about any other change, promotion, demotion, switching, changing or anything of the kind.
Of the personnel of the Army.
That's why now I might appear to this committee I don't know how their minds are running.
That you did not want it perhaps was afraid to relieve General Lawton without first after sustaining what the reaction of Senator McCartney would be without first finding out whether or not he would make an issue of it and charged you with having done it as a reprisal against General Lawton the reason of his cooperation with McCartney.
Senator McCartney.
Now Mr. Secretary the committee I am sure wants to know.
Whether or not the purpose of your long distance call of Mr. Adams was to get him to ascertain whether or not Senator McCartney would make an issue of it.
Now whether or not my happy behavior yesterday no purpose of my call was to inform Senator McCartney.
That I had this under consideration.
Will why inform Senator McCartney he hadn't appeared before him because of my policy of constant and continued cooperation with the committees of the Congress.
And with your permission I'd like to read just five lines from a report of this committee just two weeks after the date we're talking about a published public hearing on Fort Monmouth this statement by the chairman of this committee.
Mr. Chairman we will have to call all of the members of the board and put them under hold and may I say John at the present.
And this is not a criticism of you I think that you have tried to cooperate with this committee fully and I think Mr. Steven has that's an official before this committee.
Mr. Secretary let's keep not of the issue this this very charge is made against you by the command of the Macartes Act.
That by reason of General Lawton's cooperation with you are as attitude towards the person.
You were about to relieve him of his command of Fort Monmouth but the implication of their charge is that you were afraid to do so until you first ascertain whether or not Senator McCartney was there.
Senator McCartney was making a public issue now that is the charge against you I was not afraid of this I didn't ask you that question I'm I'm I'm imponing the charge.
You do say that you call Mr. Adam and told him to tell Senator McCartney that you had under consideration relieving General Lawton that's correct it.
And I believe you say that you told Mr. Adam to get Senator McCartney's reaction to that I'm a correct in that to inform him that's right you wanted to know how Senator McCartney would see you that's right if you relieve Senator if you relieve the General Lawton that's correct in that that's right now.
I think we're entitled to a yes and a wife's wrong this.
Did you tell Mr. Adam to convey to Senator McCartney the fact that you were going to relieve him if he Senator McCartney would not make a public issue of it.
I don't recall so now Mr. Secretary I was criticized very severely and I don't mind confessing it here in public and maybe I deserve it.
And if you are now for a public apology for pressing this private yesterday only yes or no answer and you are the secretary of the Army and I think this committee is entitled
to tremendously important issue in there and you know about these charges for some time I'm not arguing with you and you have to sum my water to a three days rest and now you tell this to me that all that tremendously vital issue that is whether or not you told Mr. Adam to tell Senator McCartney that you were going to relieve this
General Lawton if he was not making public issue of it your answer today is I don't remember.
I think you also explain why you don't remember I answer that is no.
Well thank you for answering your question is no but I say you want yes or no and I say no but I understand you and I feel that you're saying
that you didn't remember was that's right you do not have I'll have I'll have read it all right read the
question read tonight.
I'll be part of the call that we had issue and the bars 10 seconds for station identification.
WNYC New York City's own station.
I'll back to the car of the Army hearing the reporter is reading the question which Mr. Jenkins I've asked.
You tell me that I'm just trying to get a handle that yes or no.
Are you able to save positive is that you think that you think that I'm not question the way it was read the way I
concentrated on it while the reporter was reading it I would say no but then I'd like to offer an explanation.
That's question says convey to Senator McCartney the fact that I was going to relieve General Lawton.
Now that was not the fact we started over person who's not that person who's not that you wanted part of the trying to correct that
when they said yes you see I wasn't what I said because I didn't know whether or not I was going to
relieve General Lawton and the fact is I did not and you still would come under there and then I'd
just want to tell us then are you in now and do you now deny positively that you told Mr. Adam
to continue to convey the message to Senator McCartney that you were going to relieve General Lawton of his command
the fourth moment that he Senator McCartney would not make a public issue of it.
Yes I do not you don't you don't have that in safe positive is it did not occur that's right but what I
like to make clear is if I haven't already is that I told Mr. Adam I'd like Mr.
McCartney to be informed about this cooperating with this committee and I didn't want to do any of
things that was non-cooperative and I'd like to know what thermocartney's reaction was.
Well Mr. Secretary this is one of my questions.
In view of the fact that you and you alone were charged with a responsibility of relieving General
that you and you alone knew of his qualifications the character of work that he was doing
the senator McCartney was in no position whatever being in the latest lady right of the government
to face on the policies or fitness I'll general law to reside over the destiny of the fourth moment
and in view of the fact that you say now that you call Mr. Adam's in New York City and told him to tell
senator McCartney that you were considering relieving General Lawton of that command
and as I remember that you wanted the senator's reaction to that is it not a fact Mr. Secretary that you did not
would not relieve General Lawton of that command without first neither getting senator McCartney's
consent to do so are his reactions that would occur if you did do so.
That is if I might say so Mr. Janker rather complicated question but I'll try to have no tricks to it
I know there's no trick so I realize that sir. If I have come to the conclusion that General Lawton
should be relieved I would have done so but I thought it was appropriate when I started thinking about it
seriously to advise Senator McCartney because I wanted to follow my policy of cooperation here
I did not want this committee to feel that I was impacting in a non-cooperative manner.
Well this other question. Would you have construed the removal of General Lawton from the command
of Fort Monmouth as an act of this loyalty to senator McCartney or his committee?
No sir.
Or an act that would be construed as being an attitude of non-cooperation with the committee on your part.
I think it has been considered as a non-cooperative thing yes because I know that kind of McCartney
and he's that thought highly of the cooperation from General Lawton and it seemed to me
that for a purpose since they were working very closely with that installation that he also knows
any major change like that that I might have in mind.
I think that during the period of your consideration of the face of General Lawton of Fort Monmouth
you also considered his successor.
Now sir I just, well regardless of who his successor would have been, he would have been a man
who would have cooperated with Senator McCartney's staff just like General Lawton.
That's correct.
In which instance Senator McCartney would have had no calls to complain or make any few words?
Well that's right.
That's right.
But General Lawton had already demonstrated his cooperation and it seemed to me that Senator McCartney
would like to know about that if I was going to make a change.
Where do I think it is that you, the message you got back from Mr. Adams was that Senator McCartney
would have construed it as a reprimal against General Lawton.
Is that a general law?
Is that correct?
I don't know about reprimal but I certainly got the words back that Senator McCartney
was not, was not the play of the lawton was released back then.
Did he really need to use the lawton as a lawton or as a police?
That's right.
And who do they think that makes a change?
Mr. Adams as I recall it.
And you did not really need General Lawton.
There.
Didn't them and haven't since and I have no intention of.
Was it the cause of the work you got from Mr. Adams and Senator McCartney wouldn't stand by here with no just me?
No sir.
Was not the investigation revealed in the General Lawton as a right man to continue there?
Now the only reason you continue them and the fact that he didn't meet with the approvals of Senator McCartney
had nothing to do with his ass brought absolutely not a cello on the mark.
That's it.
Mr. Walsh, our watchdog at times, has been signaling to the chairman and had asked me at the lunch hour that he wanted to go to Boston this afternoon.
I believe therefore this chair, the night as well adjourned at this point until 10 thirty Monday morning and the chair would like to have an executive meeting of the committee and his officer to fire the fire.
Thank you.
I have a word.
You have been listening to a session of the Senate Permanent Investigation Subcommittee inquiry in the Army McCartney Contravers.
This broadcast came to you from Washington in cooperation with the American Broadcasting Company.
Thank you.